Feeling overwhelmed trying
to determine business needs? Unable to convert data
into business solutions? You're not alone, there's a growing
need in organizations for people who can create technical
solutions for business needs. This business analysis fundamentals course
unlocks the secrets of investigating business problems and
stakeholder communication skills. So that you can become the ultimate
analyst in your organization, ready to convert vague business
questions into tangible results. In this course, you will journey
through the core concepts and principles of business analysis. Explore the role of a business
analyst within an organization, learn to identify and analyze
a business problem and recognize and analyze the stakeholders
of a business project. In addition, you will discover
business analysis tools and techniques to help you complete your
BA tasks with confidence and speed. This course is designed and built by
subject matter and industry experts. To develop your success in an entry
level business analyst position, the content is created to
equip you with theoretical and practical knowledge and
real life problem solving skills. The course contains the practical skills
and knowledge demanded by employers, helping to prepare you for
your future career as a business analyst. Throughout your learning, you'll be able
to apply your knowledge through a variety of interactive activities and
real world examples. You'll also assess your progress with
knowledge checks and a practice exam. You'll start this course by examining
the role of a business analyst in an organization. This includes a definition of the role,
the responsibilities involved, the possible career progression routes,
and the types of business analysis problems
commonly encountered in organizations. As a business analyst, your main
responsibility is to help organizations solve problems and improve processes. This involves analyzing business needs,
gathering requirements, and ensuring that proposed
solutions meet those needs. But what about the people
behind the projects? Youll also learn how to recognize and
analyze stakeholders, understanding their interests,
expectations, and influence on a project. Effective stakeholder communication and
an understanding of the customer journey, will support you as you navigate
the complexities of business projects. Once you've established a solid
understanding of what's involved in the work life of a business analyst,
you'll proceed to develop the skills needed to recognize and
understand business problems. You'll learn ways to carefully look at and
analyze problems so that you can suggest solid solutions and make a positive difference to the decision
making process of an organization. Imagine you have been hired
as a business analyst for a hotel group, and there's a problem with
long wait times during hotel check ins. In this scenario, you'll work to
understand the underlying issues by analyzing factors like staffing levels and
guest flow. Simultaneously, you'll identify
stakeholders such as front desk staff, management and guests to involve
them in finding solutions and ensuring successful implementation. In this course, you will reinforce your
knowledge, you'll run through the analysis process involved in an end to end
business process improvement project. Lastly, you'll get to put your skills
into practice, this is a time for you to reflect on the key
learning points of the course, as you complete the course assessment. You'll also complete a final Capstone
project, where you'll work through the process of of solving a fictional
business problem as a business analyst. The project will include
practicing on a real world scenario focused on investigation,
stakeholder management, business process improvement,
forming a business case requirements, engineering, project delivery, and
monitoring and solution validation. By completing this learning journey,
you will develop a better understanding of business analysis fundamentals, helping
you to succeed as a business analyst. Let's get started translating business
needs into technical answers, and create your new role as the bridge between
raw data and solution implementation. Good luck and good learning as you
start this exciting educational and career journey.