My name is Ci Song, I'm currently working
at Microsoft as a senior business analyst. [MUSIC] I've always been drawn to the nexus of
technology, data, and business strategies. I think the role as a business analyst is
a great combination about all of those. To leverage the data,
to answer business questions, and also provide insights of any type
of risks or opportunities, and also to inform business decisions,
this resonated with me a lot. One interesting, challenging or
still something that I'm still learning from my working experiences
is to master the skills, to balance the technical proficiencies, and also how to communicate
effectively back to my stakeholders. As a business analyst, I know a lot
of complex technical skills of using software's and data that
can things to tackle around data. But it's also very important to
know how to communicate back and give some actionable insights back
to my-non technical stakeholders. There are a couple of type of skills that
I wish the learners could learn to be better prepared as a business analyst. Starting from the soft skills
like communications, and understand the business needs and
collaborate with different teams. And hard skills like software skills,
data analysis, SQL databases, and data visualizations and tell
the stories using the data and insights. I think that will be
some skills that I think are very important as a business analyst. The biggest challenging that we
are facing are still around data, for example, how to deliver accuracy,
and consistency, and relevant data. And the second part is how to
integrate the data from different data sources into a confirmed way. The way that we overcome those
challenges are first of all, we have our data governance council
who help us to set up the data quality rules and the definitions. And we have our automated
ways to examine the data and compare the data accuracies and
data changes on a day to day basis, so that there is an alarm system can remind
us every day to check the email and see okay, there's the differences,
there are the changes. So that everyone should aware
of any of the changes and if there are online layers happening, we are able to take a quick action
on those changes and differences. In a typical day of a business analyst,
usually, I will do first of all deal with all the meetings during the morning time
when we're still having some freshman, so that I can sync up with my
stakeholders about any performances, issues, or
any data needs that they have and also to see sync up with them
about my current process. And to collaborate with different teams
about the projects, or the business programs, or the analytics job, or the
reporting that I'm going to deliver on. And then in the afternoon times in my
typical day, I will have a dedicated focus time to really work on
the stuff that I need to deliver. Either as a business analytics project or either this is some data discoveries
that I need to do in preparing for my data integrations and also reporting's. There are a couple of ways that I stay up
on industry trends as a business analyst. First of all, is through internal
team learning sessions like groundback sessions and campfire sessions. And the second part is, leverage all those
available Internet learning resources and to pick up the most important courses or most advanced courses to keep
the trend with the industry. And the third one is from schooling
that I'm learning a new data science degree from a school. I hope that learners can
learn from these courses or from these videos about what a day to
day life like as a business analyst, and then to encourage you to
explore more during the courses and gain the skills as a business analyst.