You might wonder, when do businesses need to call
upon a business analyst? What types of problems require business
analyst involvement? Well, the answer is they
are needed quite often. Business analysts usually have an extensive range of
skills and expertise. That's why they can
tackle a wide range of business problems from
operational efficiency and process improvement
through strategic analysis to documenting requirements for a new application development. BA may have a responsibility to identify the root
cause of the problem, analyze large volumes of data, and help develop a solution that meets the needs
of the organization. Let's explore some of the diverse problems a business analyst
can help to solve. One example is
operational efficiency. Operational efficiency is all about optimizing
business processes, reducing operating expenses, and running the organization
like a well-oiled machine. A practical example of operational efficiency would
be reducing production time. Business analysts
study workflows, identify bottlenecks, and
suggest improvements. The solutions might
involve implementing new technologies like
robotic process automation, revising standard
operating procedures, or reorganizing teams. To improve customer
satisfaction, stop customers from leaving, and encourage repeat sales, a business analyst may be called upon to analyze
customer feedback, understand pain points, and identify areas
for improvement. They may use user
experience tools and techniques to visualize the entire customer experience from awareness to
post-purchase support. To make good decisions, business executives
need good data and meaningful
management reports. Business analysts are
often called upon to gather business requirements
related to data and reporting and work with
various stakeholders on designing and implementing practical management
reporting solutions. They often play a
role in selecting appropriate key
performance indicators, known as KPIs, and
visualizations, such as graphs and charts to ensure that
management reports and dashboards
effectively communicate business and market insights. BAs often need to conduct a feasibility study and complete a business case before
starting a project. During a feasibility assessment, a business analyst evaluates the costs and benefits of
the proposed solutions, the expected return
on investment, and the expected
payback period outlines solution impacts and
potential risks, and examines the overall
project's alignment with the organization's
strategic objectives. They present their
assessment results in the business
case subsequently used by decision-makers to give the project the go-ahead or not. In projects that require a
new application development, for instance, a bank planning to launch a new
mobile banking app, a business analyst gathers and documents business
requirements, resolves conflicting
requests, and translates vague ideas into
clear specifications for the development team. They also define
data requirements, help develop test cases, and participate in user
acceptance testing, known as UAT, to ensure that systems meet
specified requirements. Business analysts may
also help analyze vendor proposals and ensure that the proposed solution can
deliver the expected outcomes. In compliance
projects, for example, in a pharmaceutical company planning to launch a new drug, a business analyst would analyze existing
processes and data, identify compliance gaps
related to FDA regulations, and propose solutions to meet
these legal requirements. Their role may also
involve collaborating with stakeholders to
implement changes and create audit documentation. Let's look at a specific
example, Brexit. For those of you who don't know, Brexit was a code
name for a project involving the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union. Brexit, although not
a compliance project, had a significant impact on compliance in the financial
services industry. Many British insurance companies with long-established
presence in the EU found
themselves navigating complex compliance
challenges post-withdrawal. Here's where a business
analyst proved useful. They had to figure out
not only the impact of the legislative changes, new data protection rules, and licensing requirements, but also recommend the
changes to products, processes, data, and
organization structure, all against a ticking clock. Not an easy task.
Business analysts are the unsung heroes who help businesses navigate
exciting challenges. They take on a diverse range of tasks from transforming
abstract ideas into concrete requirements to
guiding organizations through the
ever-evolving landscape of regulations and
internal changes. With their expertise, BAs play
a crucial role in charting a course for success even in the unmapped areas of
business development. Business analysts have a diverse range of
responsibilities, such as converting ambiguous concepts into
specific requirements, managing the complexities
of organizational change, navigating regulatory
requirements, and quietly supporting the business
in uncertain situations. By carefully analyzing
and interpreting data, BAs play a vital role in steering the organization
towards success.