So you want to be a business analyst, but do you know what a business
analyst actually does? If you compare business analyst job
descriptions from different companies, you'll find they all
have different content. Why is it that jobs in areas such as
accounting or marketing have descriptions that are almost identical, but business
analyst job descriptions are seldom alike? In this video, you'll explore
the reasons for this difference. Youll also find out about the varied
skill set a good business analyst or BA should have. A general description of a BA's job is
that they act as an intermediary between the business stakeholders and
the solution providers. For example, a business analyst
at an e commerce company acts as an intermediary between
the marketing team, business stakeholders who want to
understand customer behaviour better, and the IT department solution providers
who can provide the necessary data. The business goal in this case is to
improve their marketing efforts based on customer behavior. The business analyst ensures this goal
is understood by the IT department and works with them to develop a solution, perhaps a new report that provides
detailed insights into customer behavior. But this is just the beginning. Business analysts are also responsible for analyzing the impacts of the proposed
solution and pinpointing the risks the solution may pose to existing or
future business operations. For example, a pharmaceutical company
intended to use an external organization to confirm whether their clients were
registered healthcare professionals. The BA pin pointed that the proposal could
mean a breach of data protection laws and could result in fines unless
explicit permission to do so was given by the clients. In the real world, a business analyst
often has different roles and combines aspects of various specialties. The exact role can depend
on the project context. The skills of a BA can be deployed in
different contexts or areas of business, such as problem identification, process
improvement, application development, financial performance improvement,
and risk management. In a once bustling retail company,
sales continue to decline. A business analyst conducts a problem
identification analysis within the sales process and
uncovers a glaring efficiency issue. Staff take orders on the phone,
manually write them on paper, and then laboriously enter them
into the computer system. This highly inefficient process
led to numerous errors and missed orders, driving customers away. As a solution, the BA proposes
a process improvement to develop an online ordering system
to eradicate manual entry. Embracing the recommendation, the company
started application development and swiftly implemented online ordering. With orders now seamlessly processed
online, accuracy soared, and the company regained its competitive edge. For example, an IT business analyst
working on a project involving application development may be required
to identify business objectives, gather business requirements
from various stakeholders, and translate them into a format
required by the development team. For example, a business requirement could
be a request for a new sales report. The translation the BA must make is
to ensure that the development team needs to know exactly what data must
appear in this report and in what order. In addition, they will ensure the final
report format includes proper report titles and headings and correct it
permissions for those who need to view it. On a business improvement project where
the goal is to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing process, a business analyst may have
to create process models, identify process bottlenecks and
recommend changes to the current workflow. Consider a scenario where a company
faces delays in claim settlement, resulting in dissatisfied
clients waiting weeks for their applications to be processed and
claims to be paid out. However, the root cause of the issue
may not be immediately apparent. Its only when you meticulously trace
the claim process one step at a time, that the bottleneck becomes evident. Upon closer examination, you discover
the culprit, a mistake in the workflow. By removing a duplicate
payment approval step, the claim settlement turnaround
time is slashed in half, a swift resolution to client concerns and
enhanced process efficiency. As a business analyst, you may also be
responsible for identifying potential risks related to implementing process
changes and assessing the impact of proposed changes on the current workforce,
technology and customer experience. On a compliance project, such as
implementing data protection legislation or changes to import or
export regulations, you would have to understand
the relevant regulatory frameworks, industry standards, and internal
policies the organization must follow. Then, you will have to identify
the changes to products, processes, technology or data the organization needs
to implement to achieve this compliance. And that's only part of the story, different industries have distinct
processes, regulations, and challenges. As a result, a business analyst
working in finance may require a very different focus compared to the same
job in the pharmaceutical industry. Organization size also matters, working
as a BA for an international corporation, you need a broad perspective and
a deeper understanding of global business dynamics than working for
a smaller local business. In a larger organization,
you face more complex technologies, extensive data, stricter protocols and
cross country regulations. Your colleagues or stakeholders may be
located in different geographic areas and different time zones,
speak other languages, and represent a different culture. You may be beginning to understand that
the business analyst role is varied, dynamic, and exciting. No two roles are precisely the same. Even within the same company, the
requirements are continuously changing. Evolving customer expectations,
market shifts and technological advances, require business analysts to stay
updated with industry trends, emerging technologies, and the latest BA
tools, techniques, and best practices. All these factors have an impact
on a job description for a BA and the set of skills that
are required of the analyst. An experienced business analyst
is often compared to a multitool. A versatile person equipped with
an array of business analysis tools and techniques and able to handle a wide
range of tasks or challenges. Each tool serves a unique purpose and
you will learn the role of each tool and how and when to use it. This will give you the confidence to
tackle a multitude of problems in the ever evolving world of business analysis.